Paro woke up with sudden noise from the center of the home. It seemed Balram Kaka was shouting . The house - also called Badi Haveli was built in a fashion - that any one even talking in the center ground could be heard. The center yard , also called Aahata was ioopen to the sky. A covered corridor led tp the center court from the main door that had large wooden gates tempered with iron brackets. All four sides , had three stories built over a period of time - almost hundred years. The outer walls were almost two and half feet wide , making it a tiny fortress. Paro's room was on the far side of the main entrance. Right outside her room was a big open space on the first floor itself where her husband - the Deewaan of the town used to sit. He could see people sitting in the center court and vice versa. Normally farmers and farm labour would sit in the center court to express their grievances and thanks alike. On both sides, Paro's both sons had their rooms and private seating places facing outside. Second floor was dedicated to the guests. 

Paro wasn't fully awake yet but she could hear Balram Kaka - commonly called Ballam Da , very clearly. She couldn't get the context but she heard loud and clear - "Someone had died under the Banyan tree " . The tree was just across the street from the main gate. It was kinda the extent of Paro's outside trip on daily basis. She used to render water from her evening prayers to the setting sun every evening. One could see the setting Sun from the peripharial circular chabootra around the tree . Many farm workers who showed up to get their wages around noon used to rest here after the sumptuous lunch that every one got from Paro's kitchen. 

A strange feeling took over Paro. She wanted to ask "who died ?" But seemed like she knew. He had said he will come around at least once before he died. Words got trapped in her mouth. She lie there lifeless in her bed as if forgot to breathe. And then two tears rolled off her eyes down to hew cheeks. More gathered around her ears.

She could hear her husband rushing down. Her elder son used to go out early for hunting. He was obviously not home but his wife ran down. The younger son was a late riser. His wife was trying to wake him up - "Your dad is calling you . Wake up its an emergency". Paro's eyes were stuck on the ceiling. A ceiling she had spent many nights gazing in the early days of her marriage. They had taken down the big hand pulled fan from the ceiling. A regular thing they do at the onset of winter. In summer, someone used to sit outside her room and pull the rope attached to the fan till she got into deep sleep. She used to see the moving fan, as if it was erasing her past. One tiny stroke at a time. In absence of the fan, her memories are stuck on the ceiling. As if she lived her entire life again. Particularly the moments with Dev. 

She tried to pick up the thick mosquito net from a side with her hands. Felt like there was a weight attached to her hands. As she brought her feet to the ground, reality struck her. And now she could hear her husband coming back in the house. Her younger son, Prodeep was already down in the center court and asked his dad - " Kee Holo - What happened ?" . She could hear her husband responding to her son - " Looks like a man from upper cast. Must be around forty". 

Paro sank back in the bed. She knew it was Dev. She lost sense of time. Must have been quite a while because her eyes dried up. She finally got out of the bed as she heard her elder son coming back from the front. He had brought few farm workers with him. Deewan Ji had already sent Ballam Da to get the Pandit and Prodeep to summon the local Hawaldar - Sharrif. Her elder son wanted to move the body as quickly as possible before the sun hits the dead but dad stopped him till the police shows up and he wanted to consult the Pandit Ji as to what could be the meaning of this death. How to make sure the home and family is protected from this bad omen. 

Paro, fixed her hair with dead hands. Put the Bindi from the side table and looked at herself in the mirror. She could see her empty eyes. It was as if she had her twin in herself. Two souls in one body. One that made her stick to her duties. Another that cried every night. The cry soul was now visible in the mirror. She had kept her hidden from everyone. Today was the final test. Will she let her guard down. She didn't know. It was beyond her. Whenever Dev was near, she never knew what she had do. And now he was resting his final sleep at her gate. She had no clue what and how to behave. And it wouldn't be much help even if she knew.

